Convert "Create a DevTools extension" to sample-based (#3616)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/extensions/developer-guide/sidebar.md

      * [By clicking an icon](#by-clicking-an-icon)
      * [By right-clicking the extension's icon](#by-right-clicking-the-extensions-icon)
      * [By pressing a keyboard shortcut](#by-pressing-a-keyboard-shortcut)
      * [Open through a gesture](#open-through-a-gesture)
* [Extension samples](#extension-samples)
* [Types and methods](#types-and-methods)
* [See also](#see-also)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Introduction
<!-- Description  https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/api/sidePanel#description -->

Use the `chrome.sidePanel` API to host content in the sidebar of Microsoft Edge (or in the _side panel_ of Google Chrome) alongside the main content of a webpage.

As a Microsoft Edge extension developer, you can make your new or existing Microsoft Edge extension appear in the sidebar.  Any extension can use the sidebar in addition to its other UI.

![The sidebar for a Microsoft Edge extension](./sidebar-images/sidebar-screenshot.png)

By using the Side Panel API, you can enhance the browsing experience by enabling users to view additional information alongside the main content of a webpage.

> The _sidebar_ is a persistent pane that's located on the side of Microsoft Edge (called _side panel_ in Google Chrome).  The sidebar pane coexists with the primary content of the browser.  The sidebar reduces the need to constantly switch between tabs, resulting in a more productive browsing experience.

Reviewer: We don't need to describe Chrome's UI. It's good to be clear on the differences between names of UI elements (e.g. the sidebar) and API names (e.g. Side Panel API), but no need to also say how things are called in Chrome.

```suggestion
The _sidebar_ is a persistent pane that's located on the side of Microsoft Edge.  The sidebar pane coexists with the primary content of the browser.  The sidebar reduces the need to constantly switch between tabs, resulting in a more productive browsing experience.
```

An extension can optionally use the Side Panel API to show a custom UI in the Microsoft Edge sidebar.  Additionally, the extension can continue appearing in the Microsoft Edge toolbar along with a UI such as popups, and can inject scripts.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Terminology
<!-- not in upstream -->

| Term | Definition |
|---|---|
| _the Side Panel API_ | Name of the feature that you can use in your Microsoft Edge extensions.  The Chrome UI uses the term _side panel_. |
| `sidePanel` or `side_panel` | Name of the API and permission to enable any extension as a sidebar extension. |
| _sidebar extension_ | A Microsoft Edge extension that has a UI in the sidebar. |

* Microsoft Edge UI: "sidebar"
* Chrome UI: "side panel"

>    * Chrome API: "sidepanel"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Concepts and usage
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/api/sidePanel#concepts_and_usage -->

> The Side Panel API allows an extension to display its own UI in the Microsoft Edge sidebar (or Google Chrome side panel), enabling a persistent experience that complements the user's browsing journey.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Side Panel API allows an extension to display its own UI in the Microsoft Edge sidebar, enabling a persistent experience that complements the user's browsing journey.
```

![Edge browser sidebar UI](./sidebar-images/example-sidebar.png)

<!-- para not in upstream: -->

> As with other extension resources, the sidebar page commits to a trusted extension context on its origin (`extension://<id>`).  The sidebar has the same API access as other trusted extension contexts.

Reviewer: I don't understand this sentence. Perhaps this works better::

```suggestion
As with other extension resources, the HTML page that's displayed in the sidebar runs in a trusted extension context on the extension's origin (`extension://<id>`).  The sidebar has the same API access as other trusted extension contexts.
```

  if (url.origin === BING_ORIGIN) {
    await chrome.sidePanel.setOptions({
      tabId,

>       path: 'sidepanel.html', // sidebar.html for consis w/ previous initial example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      path: 'sidepanel.html',
```

Did you really mean to keep this comment?

Author: removed comment.  
we're going with whatever file names are in the actual example (rather than what's in this previous, live article).

ie: Edge UI is "sidebar", but example is "side panel" eg sidepanel.html
